whoa that was a thing that was a thing
that was certainly a thing hello we're
here at movieclips hostel esque place
and we're here to talk about Eli Roth's
hostel that's a movie we're gonna repeat
it after the movie we're gonna review it
man oh man
it's a movie what a thing now when
hostel came out 2005 2005 it was it it
was quite the storm it really was I was
in high school at the time it was kind
of a dare to see you moving right which
later we'd find out eli roth has kind of
made a career out of dare to see movies
with the green inferno coming up being
his latest um andrew just overall what
do you think of this book i have not
seen this film i until since 2005 yes i
was in high school student yeah and i
remember actually liking it because I
saw it was around the time where torture
porn the term torture porn was a big
thing yeah and really hostile and saw
were the two movies that really made it
most assault yeah and also kind of
really cemented right as a genre yes
like that click a cliche for that period
and I also I think it's an interesting
film I think that hostile kind of is the
the mark that torture porn has not lived
up to since I completely agree if you
hear Eli Roth talk about it it he speaks
about it like it's a more interesting
film than I've seen oh really now yeah
it's it's I don't think all of his ideas
come across but I do think there are a
lot of ideas in the movie right which is
more than I could say for a lot of
torture porn like I saw which we will
probably compared to yeah I completely
agree i I remember very specifically
thinking because I was a fan of cabin
fever yeah which was his first film and
both cabin fever and hostel he did it so
quickly I remember reading a lot about
the production of hospital and it was a
very quick production it was very fast
I remember after after I saw the movie
thinking like oh he's never off this
gonna turn out stuff like this all the
time and the growth he had from having a
fever Dussel was so significant I
thought he was gonna do a lot more stuff
incidentally what happened was actually
the opposite he's just lived off the
coattails of fossil for almost a death
yeah and we'll see I mean green inferno
yeah we'll see what happens but let's
get into this movie alright right right
he shot it I believe in Prague yes um
really cheap and what's interesting
about this compared to saw is that this
feels like such a more refined movie
yeah despite saw when it was being made
and when it was kind of playing I think
it played at Sundance it had so much
hype around it right and this for such a
low budget I think it was like one three
or so is really cheap I'm making like a
eighty
looks like such a more refined movie and
I think Eli Roth is a really skilled
filmmaker yeah I'm like you said from
cabin fever to this it's it's huge yeah
um but yeah you have the it's a slow
burn movie kind of he claims it's more
of a slow burn movie phrase because if
by slow burn he means like sex and boobs
all over the place it's really
sensational it's slow burning in the
horror elements but it's a very
sensational movie for those first 40
minutes yeah like you know the shiner he
said he wanted to make Amsterdam seem
like seem like an adult Disneyland right
which I'm not sure if this is really an
adult at Disneyland it's like a Dalton's
in terms of like if you went to an adult
section the movie store like it's adult
but you know it's not mature by any
stretch um which a furniture audience
yeah and his movies tend not to be very
mature at all when I saw the movie for
the first time in high school I remember
thinking the commentary on
objectification like the way these frat
boys objectify women obviously is
mirrored you don't have to really
critique it too much it's very obvious
is mirrored in the way that the rich
sociopaths they become the men become
objects exactly they objectify the men
that's a very clear Marian that's very
clear commentary I remember you know
feeling that way a lot when I saw it and
going back and revisiting now I kind of
think Eli Roth's persona undermines that
viewpoint because he is kind of a frat
guy his hope for that study is kind of
like a horror job yeah it's it it has
seemed that way when he speaks he
doesn't seem that way yeah he's actually
a better ticket he's done our interviews
where he speaks about that frat boy
persona and he's like I wasn't a frat
boy I just go to the gym like that's
kind of what it's what it is but it's
interesting because I don't know if it's
because he's not interested or maybe
it's just a shortcoming as a writer on
his part if he could learn or if he
showed interest in portraying
three-dimensional characters he'd be
unstoppable as a hard director but
that's for me where his biggest
shortcoming in this film in all of his
films is is that he creates these
characters that are just so
two-dimensional the guys are all like
the guys are all dudes and the girls are
all kind of like sexy objectified things
and just because he's saying that the
men are objectifying doesn't mean that
the movie needs to objectify them but
his act does and it's kind of this weird
thing where it's like he's showing them
the way that the men see them but should
he really portray them that way
right I should the men be the foil right
it's it's a strange thing but let's get
into after the slow burn right the
tortures the torture stuff happens
I agree with ways you - I think he's
really missing Tropic I think he hates
every one of his hair like I've never
seen an Eli Roth yeah where I not even
that I care about a character but I get
the sense that the filmmakers know he
sets them up to be tortured by that
where I can enjoy it and a question I
have for you to it and this this may be
going a bit too far too early but do you
think it's a lot of people think there's
a feminist undertones in the movie
you know with the whole themes going on
and with that Marion going on but do you
think that is undermined when like a
Titan when Natasha says who's gorgeous
after that actress and she's absolutely
gorgeous but when she says now you are
my yeah but do you think that's
all undermined when Jay Hernandez kills
her in a very audience pleasing moment
yeah I think I think every like every
every message every messages is there
cons are cut by sensationalism yeah yeah
talk about that with the ending to
because there are two different endings
yeah
we're speaking more about the theatrical
from but let's say the torture scenes
are horrific right and and when they
came out it very effective when it came
out it was like nothing anyone had ever
seen before right um the I mean the
cutting of the Achilles tendon is just
like something that curls my toes yeah
and you have those things that's so
simple you could feel what it is like
and it is restrained he doesn't show us
that much that's a really horrific scene
and he really puts us in kind of the
eyes of the tortured brain the tortured
person the torture II yeah um the first
one the frame yes yes absolutely it's a
horrific scene and it's a really and
it's well-crafted scene whether you're
however you feel about what's going on
the side it's a really well crafted
scene from the film making standpoint
and I think that that carries through
yeah um but yeah the ending of kind of
the mirroring of how the businessman
killed his friend and how he's killer a
businessman in the alternate version is
different right yeah the alternate
version he he sees the Dutch businessman
who is probably my favorite thing about
this piece because his name is a yawn
plastic or something like that last
something that we've something we can
friend with somebody yeah we've had a
lot of district but uh he sees him in
the Train it's very much like the
theatrical ending
hmm and he sees him with his daughter
and that ending instead of taking
revenge on on the the business guy he
just steals the daughter takes her in a
train and then runs away yeah and then
you know the business guy comes on he's
like where's my daughter so it could be
misty sure that he's doing that to
torture back
even more or he's doing that to save her
from being raised by a complete sight
yeah both of which would be more subtle
than this film allows that's true but I
kind of like the theatrical ending
because I think what the theatrical
ending does is engage the audience into
that kind of objectification because
what happens is you know first they
objectify women and then you know they
see themselves being objectified by
these men and then the third layer the
hats at the end when he kills that guy
the audience gets involved and we
objectified everybody because we're like
yeah kill this dude I want to see him
tortured just as much as the other guys
so the Eli Roth invites the audience to
indulge in that yeah thirst for violence
yeah which i think is really sensational
but it's also in tone with that movie
yeah my Roth has spoken about his kind
of the psychology of horror movies and
how he feels because his father was a
psychologist his mother was a painter he
says that his father always said that
the good dream of what the bad do and he
kind of has this feeling about horror
movies that we want to see this violence
because there's so much terrible things
in the world that's interests at we want
to go somewhere safe where we know that
it's fake and we could scream and get it
out because in a cathartic way whether
you agree with that or not
right um it's it's interesting to hear
him talk about it then if you're
interested in in this film at all or I
recommend that you watch interviews with
the Eli Roth because it's it's really
interesting to hear him talk about it
right I think that there is we live in a
different world than it was a 2005 a
little bit and I think that there is a
problematic feeling with the way he
portrays violence because it it is he's
a product of Tarantino in that way yeah
yes where the violence is he in his mind
the way he speaks about it separate from
any kind of violence in real life but
that was interesting because a lot of
people could say the torture porn I mean
I mean this is kind of you know pop
culture treasures that we think of now
yeah in that era torture porn is kind of
died out I mean saw movies stuffy and
produced about a year or two
and now it's more of that James Wan who
incidentally did saw is now doing the
the site yeah paranormal stuff we have
all the right now and I think maybe
people had had enough of this accessory
extreme violence well it's totally I'm
wondering if and you you're gonna laugh
because I do this kind of stuff all the
time
if the abu gray thing which happened you
know like in 2004 this movie came out in
2005 i saw maybe year before it but
there is that kind of yeah i do wonder
if that had something to do with the
fascination that we had maybe i a lot of
critics well I mean talked about a good
thesis out of it I'm he's spoken about
it and it is an interesting film in turn
bright that it's it's extremely
troublesome so if you're queasy you're
like effect don't you know watch it the
violence is interesting yeah but it's
it's extremely it pretty um so yeah
that's where thoughts on Eli Roth's also
it lived up to my feelings of how I
remembered it yeah I'm I do like this
movie and I'm not like ashamed to say I
liked it it is a you right it does have
a lot of troubles with what is trying to
say but it's incredibly affected is a
very well-crafted movie I wouldn't say
that I like it but it is an interesting
film so let us know what you think of
Eli Roth's hostel we're about to hit the
road get back in the rain totally
checking back there will be more and
more horror views as Halloween
approaches we love Halloween so until
then I'm runnin holiday and I'm Andrew
thank you for watching
[Music]